so now let's take a look at the specific
method that's based on regression now
this was one of the many different
methods and in fact it's one of the
simplest methods then I choose this to
explain the idea because it's it's a
simple so in this approach we simply
assume that the relevance of a document
with respect to the query is related to
a linear combination of all the features
here I used the X I to denote the
feature so X of Q and E is a feature and
we have as many features as we would
like and we assume that these features
can be combined in the linear manner and
each t2 is controlled by a parameter
here and this beta is a parameter
that's a weighting parameter a larger
value would mean the feature would have
a high weight and it would contribute
more to the scoring function the
specific form of the function actually
also involves a transformation of the
probability of relevance so this is the
probability of relevance we know that
the probability of relevance is within
the range from 0 to 1 and we could have
just assumed that the scoring function
is related to this linear combination
right so we can do a linear regression
but then the value of this linear
combination could easily go beyond 1 so
this transformation here
what map is 0 to 1 range to the whole
range of real values you can even verify
it by yourself so this allows us then to
connect the probability of relevance
which is between 0 & 1
through a linear combination of
arbitrary features and if we rewrite
this into a probability function we
would get the next one so on the spot on
this equation that will have the
probability of relevance and on the
right hand side will have this form now
this form is clearly non-negative and it
still involves the linear combination of
features and it's also clear that is if
this value is this is actually negative
of the linear combination in the
question about if this is this value
here if this value is large then it will
mean this value is small and therefore
this probability this whole probability
would be large and that's what we expect
the basically it would mean if this
combination gives us a high value then
the talking is more likely relevant so
this is our hypothesis again this is not
necessarily the best of hypotheses but
this is a simple way to connect these
features with the probability of
relevance so now we have this
combination function the next task is to
see how we to estimate the parameters so
that the function can actually be
applied right without knowing the beta
values it's it's harder to apply this
function so let's see how he estimate
beta values let's take a look at a
simple example in this example we have
three features one is PM 25 score of the
document and query one is the page rank
score of the document which might or
might not depend on the query we might
have a topic sensitive take R and that
would depend on the query otherwise the
general page rank doesn't really
dependent
and then we'll have be able 25 score on
the anchor text of the document now
these are then the feature values for a
particular dog talking the query pair
and in this case the document is in one
and the judgment is a set is irrelevant
here's another training instance and
with these feature values but in this
case it's non relevant okay and this is
a overly simplified case where we just
have two instances but it's sufficient
to illustrate the point so what we can
do is we use the maximum likelihood
estimator to actually estimating the
parameters basically we're going to
predict the relevance status of the
document based on the future values that
is given that we observe these future
values here can we predict the relevance
yeah and of course the prediction will
be using this function that you see here
and we hypothesize that the probability
of relevance is related to features in
this way so we're going to see for what
values of beta we can predict the
relevance well what do we mean well what
do we mean by predicting the relevance
well well we just mean in the first case
for d1 this expression here right here
should give high values in factor we
hope this to give a very close one why
because this is a realm in the document
on the other hand in the second case for
d2
we hope this value would be small right
why because it's a non random in the
document so now let's see how this can
be mathematical expression and this is
similar to expressing the probability of
document only that we are not talking
about the probability of word
talking about the top meaning of
relevance 1 or 0 so what's the
probability of this document being
relevant if it has these featured values
well this is just this expression right
we just need to plug in the excise so
that's what we will get
it's exactly like what we have seen
about only that we replace these excise
with now specific values so for example
this point 7 goes to here and this point
if everything goes to here and these are
different future values and we combine
them in this particular way the beta
values are stay unknown but this gives
us the probability that this document is
environment if we assume such a model ok
we want to maximize this probability
since this is a relevant document what
do we do for the second document well we
want to compute the probability that the
predictions isn't not relevant so this
would mean we have two computer one -
like this expression since this
expression is actually the probability
of relevance so to compute the non
relevance from wellness we just do 1
minus the probability of relevancy ok so
this whole expression then just is our
probability of predicting these two
relevance values one is 1 here 1 is 0
and this polling question is our
probability of observing a 1 here and 0
here
of course this probability depends on
the beta values right so then our goals
do
adjust the beta values to make this
whole thing rich its maximum make that
as large as possible so that means we're
going to compute this the beta is just
the the primary the values that would
maximize this whole like holy expression
and what means is if look at the
function is we're gonna choose pay
dollars to make this as large as
possible and make this also as large as
possible which is equivalent to say make
this the part as small as possible and
this is precisely what we want so once
we do the training now we will know the
beta values so then this function would
be well defined once beta values are
known to both this and these will be
completely specified so for any new
query and new documents we can simply
compute the features for that pair and
then we just use this formula to
generate the ranking score and this
scoring function can be used to rank the
documents for a particular query so
that's the basic idea of learning to
rank
[Music]